so how do you deal with social anxiety
okay so the first thing to understand is
that social anxiety is a learned
response okay so social anxiety happens
when somewhere I mean so there's there
genetic predispositions to it but when I
work with social anxiety what I really
the most successful I've been is in
helping people understand that like
somewhere along the way your mind
learned that to be watched and to be
onstage and to be seen is actually to be
in danger so if we think about what
happens in social anxiety when you're in
a room full of people you have a
sympathetic nervous response you have an
adrenaline response your mind and your
body feel like you're in danger okay
like that's what's going on your
adrenaline is pumping your heart is
pumping really fast your blood pressure
goes up you get diaphoretic
you get sweaty right so that's what
happens in social anxiety so your your
brain has realized that being seen is
being in danger so you want to be
invisible right you don't want to be
seen by anyone you just want to be like
him and when you get seen that means
you're in danger so I had social anxiety
growing up because I was bullied a lot
as a kid so when I was like 6 years old
and 7 years old I would get bullied so I
still remember like being on the
playground and being like I don't know
if this has ever happened to you guys
but being like literally surrounded by
kids like you're in the middle of a
circle and then there's like the bully
and then they're all the bullies friends
and you're like the target you're under
the crosshairs and my body and my brain
learned that the more eyes that are on
you the more [ __ ] you are and that the
way to be safe is that like no one is
watching you right that's that's so my
body like learned like it was a survival
mechanism because being bullied like
doesn't feel good my body was like oh
[ __ ] we're gonna get we're gonna get
[ __ ] again and the more people that
are laughing at me the more people that
are watching me the more likely I am to
get screwed and that's a lesson that
your mind and brain learns to try to
protect you
so when you're like seven years old and
you get bullied a lot like what happens
is like you learn you're like I better
not be seen so I learned how to become
invisible
I learned how to crack jokes I learned
how to be self-deprecating because when
someone's like making fun of you if you
make fun of yourself you kind of take
the bite out of the bully like bullies
are [ __ ] stupid usually and they're
like if you start making fun of yourself
they don't know what to do so I started
to be like self-deprecating because what
I realize even though I'm making a joke
and everyone is watching me what I
realize is they're not really seeing me
they're not seeing me they're seeing
like the mask that I put on and then
like that's like that sort of started as
my is my like protection against social
anxiety so the first thing to understand
about social anxiety is that's not your
brain trying to [ __ ] you over your brain
isn't trying to keep you from making
friends although that's the result right
it's not trying to make you feel bad
your social anxiety is trying to protect
you
because somewhere along the way you
learn the lesson that being seen is
being in danger
so what you've got to do is actually
track back and first of all like figure
out that understand that your body's
gonna do this to you and it's not that
you're wrong like it's not your body's
like stupid
it's just your body doesn't understand
right like it got bit by a dog and you
see a dog and it's gonna freak the [ __ ]
out because that's all it knows how to
do so the first thing is to understand
that it's trying to help you out and
even if you understand that it's trying
to help you out that can give you some
power over right you can start to notice
the social anxiety so cultivating the
observing self cultivate that part of
you that recognizes oh this is my social
anxiety acting up again be prepared for
it just acknowledge that it's happening
see that it happens and recognize that
there's a part of your brain that's
trying to help you out it's like Leroy
[ __ ] Jenkins
Leroy was trying to help he was like
alright guys let's go Leroy let's charge
let's sound that raid boss Leroy's
[ __ ] everything up but he's trying to
help he's just helping as best as he can
that's all he knows how to do right so
like that's what your social anxiety is
doing the second thing is to understand
that that you can shut off okay so this
I can think about social anxiety is as
your adrenaline system kicks in
it speeds up the rate of your thoughts
so when you have adrenaline going on in
your brain it adrenaline flowing through
your body once the danger response gets
triggered then what happens is your
brain gets like confused by that and it
gets activated so adrenaline does a
couple of things to your thinking it
starts to make you think in black and
white because our brain evolved that
when we have adrenaline going on we need
to make snap decisions and those
decisions need to be treated not as
hypotheticals but as reality so when
you're experiencing social anxiety you
don't understand the difference between
hypothetical and reality and that's
absolutely evolutionary so like
thousands or tens of thousands or
millions of years ago when our brain
evolved and we saw a tiger or a snake or
a lion like we didn't give a [ __ ]
like what the lion was thinking like
there was there's no hypothetical our
adrenaline signed to make us have snap
judgments and assume that danger is real
we start treating hypothetical danger is
real danger right our mind doesn't sit
there and start thinking about oh maybe
the lion will attack maybe it won't
attack maybe I'm actually okay like
maybe it ate recently like let's just
stop like and think about this calmly no
that's not the way that adrenaline is
designed Adrenaline's like that lines
gonna attack us let's get out of here we
got out we got a fight or we got a run
so adrenaline is doing that too you're
thinking it is making hypothetical feels
fears feel like reality and that's what
it's designed to do that's what's
happening in your brain it's happening
neuro scientifically that hypothetical
becomes reality so the second thing you
can do is learn how to meditate because
when you meditate so if you start to
have a social anxiety response if you
engage in a meditative technique what
happens is your mind you're gonna you're
gonna recruit your vagus nerve and
you're gonna recruit your
parasympathetic nervous system so
meditation shuts off the adrenaline
response so you're just gonna shut it
off and as you shut off the adrenaline
response adrenaline has a half-life of
like 1 to 5 minutes so if you can really
shut off your
response then your mind will start
thinking more clearly you'll start
thinking in hypotheticals you'll start
understanding in the best technique to
shut off the adrenaline response is
anything that slows down the rate of
your exhalation so when you start to
breathe deeply slow down your exhalation
so breathe in for three seconds do it
with me
breathe out for seven in four three slow
down the exhalation right my adrenaline
was spiking because this is like you
guys are bombarded me with questions and
I can't keep up it's really disturbing
my fatha good get dizzy right so now
slow down so stop after three breaths
the reason that I say focus on
exhalation there are other techniques
that work do but if you're socially
anxious you have to do something that's
not gonna make you look like weirdo
right you have to do something that like
you can do in a group of people so you
just slow down your exhalation you can
do that without anyone noticing it's got
to be something you can do without
anyone noticing and as you slow down
your exhalation as you slow down your
breathing your co2 level will increase
your o2 level can decrease and your
parasympathetic nervous system will
become active your vagus nerve will
become active when the vagus nerve
becomes active it slows down your heart
rate lowers your blood pressure causes
you to chill out and the thing about
social anxiety is once you start
chilling out then you can potentially
break the cycle because social anxiety
is a cycle right the more anxious you
become the more adrenaline you feel more
adrenaline you feel the more your
thinking becomes reality the more your
thinking becomes reality the more you
you it's not that they could be judging
you it's not that they they could think
you're an idiot
every
does think you're an idiot right in
social anxiety your fears become reality
and you've got to break that cycle and
there's a physiologic technique that you
can use to break it the last thing you
can do about social anxiety so the first
thing is to notice that the second thing
is to meditate and specifically slow
down your exhalations as much as
possible the third thing is to get to
the root of your social social anxiety
right when did you learn that being seen
is being in danger because if you can
get to the root of it and you can
metabolize that some scar if you can
digest it if you can unlearn that lesson
so in reckless case he's got to unlearn
the lesson that life has no meaning
because his meaning was destroyed when
his brother killed himself so you've got
to unlearn what you learned before but
in order to do that you have to
understand like what it is that you want
like you have to find that specific
point you got to find that point within
yourself that brings up that emotion
that is like a geyser like for reckful
it's a geyser like I'm just like asking
him questions then one question happens
and he starts crying right and it's like
what's that
like what's going on there